Notice that we are writing the description and tutorials to our source code and other related materials, in order to foster future research in this robot collision avoidance line. They will be found in our repository in Github https://github.com/SunIMLab/MAPPO-GLMP, before publication. 
# MAPPO-GLMP
MAPPO-GLMP is a new collision-free navigation system that is robust in dynamic scenarios. This system is also a model-free end-to-end robotic vehicle navigation method, which exploits a combination of PPO and MA, and is augmented with MSFM, PCP, and PID, to learn an optimal collision-free policy to promote more informed robot navigation decision in various dynamic scenes. 
# Abstract
To develop a safe and efficient navigation system of robotic vehicles in complex dynamic scenes, a new collision avoidance approach using deep reinforcement learning (DRL) is presented. Firstly, a novel method of DRL based on multi-threaded asynchronous proximal policy optimization (MAPPO) is developed, which can convert expensive online calculation into an offline training process, improving sample efficiency during policy learning. Then, a multi-sensor fusion measurement (MSFM) method is presented through the combination of global reference path (GRP), laser scanner measurement (LSM), and motion energy (ME), to observe the state space of environment to the maximum extent. By multi-reward refining at each timestep, the sparsity of rewards is avoided. On this basis, a collision avoidance neural network (CANN) fused in multi-scale and multi-level is devised to generate high-quality obstacle features, which can enable the MAPPO to master collision threat effectively. Besides, a premature collision prediction (PCP) module supervised by GRP is devised as an auxiliary task to learn high-level feature representation to further improve the safety during robot collision avoidance. Finally, a two-stage training strategy from 2D Stage to 3D Gazebo is presented to realize sufficient robot-environment interaction. This way, the policy model can maximize its degree of exploration in complex dynamic scenarios. Extensive navigation experiments are conducted on the complex simulation and real-world scenarios with a variety of obstacles, along with multiple comparative experiments to testify the effectiveness and robustness of our approach in robot collision avoidance. Experiment results reveal that our method can make farsighted navigation decisions in complex dynamic environments to dodge collisions successfully while moving toward the goal.



